Ec dh api how to - Draft for reviews (#3150)
mendix/docs: content/data-hub/general/data-hub-api-how-to.md

---
title: "Using the Data Hub API - DRAFT"
category: "General Info"
menu_order: 50
description: "How to use the Dat Hub API a guide with examples."
tags: ["data hub", "Data Hub API", "registration", "api", "api-requests"]
---

## 1 Introduction

> This guide describes how to use and the [DataHubAPI](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) for searching and registering your data sources from your business applications to Data Hub and consuming them. 

Reviewer: test comment

The [DataHubAPI](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) is published as an OpenAPI 3.0 (formerly Swagger) specification which enables you to visualize the API. It has the latest documentation on the calls that can be made which you can try out.  For full definitions of the data, objects and schemas used in this how-to refer to the specification.

> You can see the process of search, registration and consume using Data Hub by working throught the how-to [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) . This also demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering and consuming data sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the process of search, registration and consume test using Data Hub by working throught the how-to [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) . This also demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering and consuming data sources. 
```

> You can see the process of search, registration and consume using Data Hub by working throught the how-to [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) . This also demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering and consuming data sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the process of search, registration and consume using Data Hub test 11 by working throught the how-to [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) . This also demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering and consuming data sources. 
```

> You can see the process of search, registration and consume using Data Hub by working throught the how-to [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) . This also demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering and consuming data sources. 

Reviewer 2: typo -> through (I'd push the change myself but I'm collapsed while trying to setup local development environment :( )

Author: brilliant! thanks

> Using the Data Hub API you can create a deployment process for your apps to register the OData v3 and OData v4 services from these apps and make them available for use in another app through the Data Hub Catalog. 

Reviewer: test

**Note**: To use the Mendix Data Hub a license is required.

**This how-to will teach you how to do use the API to do the following:**

- Search the catalog for a string – [Section 5](#api-search)
- Register the service in the Catalog –  [Section 6](#api-search)
- Register consumed datasets by an App – [Section 7](#consumed-ep)

Examples are provided for all the calls described in this how-to in the [Data Hub API how-to examples](/general/data-hub-api-how-to-examples) that accompanies this how-to.

## 2 Prerequisites

Before starting this how-to, make sure you have completed the following:

- Have a registered Mendix Data Hub account

> - To access the API you must obtain a Personal Access Token (PAT) as described in [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat) to authenticate your integration’s API requests

Author: Brilliant!

## 3 Overview of the Data Hub API

The following points provide an overview of the Data Hub API and using it:

- You can access the latest Data Hub API at: [http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/).
- The base URL for all calls to the API is: https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/
- All requests that are made to the Data Hub API must include the access to the organization’s Data Hub. This is accomplished by including the PAT ( [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat)) in the header of the request: `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>.` For more details see: [API calls and authentication](#authentication).
- For the full specifications of the parameters and schemas and the response status codes refer to the  [OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/). 
- The requests that can be made through the Data Hub API:

>   - Search for registered assets (data sources, datasets, attributes and associations) in the Catalog using GET /data

Author: Will reference the DH search doc here. Thanks.

>   - Search for registered assets (data sources, datasets, attributes and associations) in the Catalog using GET /data

Author: What do you mean by the ES index configuration? Is this a call they can make?

>   - Search for registered assets (data sources, datasets, attributes and associations) in the Catalog using GET /data

Author: x-ref to the search document added.

  - Registering datasets:
	Registering datasets involves registering the data source (OData services) that the dataset is exposed in. The following requests must be made in the given order using the returned UUID values for the subsequent requests:
		1. Application that the dataset originates from: POST application
		2. Environment that the dataset is deployed to: POST environment
		3. Register the published services (data source) of the application: PUT
		4. Register the all the published services (data source) of the application
		5. Register consumed services (data source)

  - Find specific data sources and retrieve contracts to consume

## 4 Making the API Calls and Authentication {#authentication}

This how-to guides users in using the Data Hub API, for full details of all the objects and schemas that define the collections and arrays that are required refer to the [Data Hub OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com).

For each request described in this document, the method and URL is given for the base call with a description of the parameters and body. An example is given that you follow to try out the calls. 

> For some examples, the [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/) command is also given. You will be required to enter the specifics for your own registration such as the returned values for your requests. 

Author: ```suggestion
For some examples, the [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/) command is also given. You must enter the specifics for your own registration such as the returned values for your requests. 
```

**Note:** curl is an open-source tool curl that is pre-installed on many Linux and macOS systems. Windows users can download a version at curl.haxx.se. When using HTTPS on Windows, ensure that your system meets the curl requirements for SSL.

### 4.1 Authentication

> Authentication in the Data Hub API is established by defining the access to your organization’s Data Hub using the [PAT](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepa). You do not specify any *authorization* for your request but must include the following key:value pair as part of the header for *each* request:  `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>`

Author: Good words Julia. Thanks.

#### 4.1.1 Using Postman

> If you prefer to use a tool with a graphical user interface when working with APIs, you can use a REST API client of your choice, for example, [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Using Postman, for each request, provide the request URI, the HTTP method, and, if required, the request parameters and body.  Authentication is specified in the request **Header**.  You can set your PAT token as a variable which can be conveniently called for each request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use a tool with a graphical user interface when working with APIs, you can use a REST API client of your choice, for example, [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Using Postman, for each request, provide the request URI, the HTTP method, and, if required, the request parameters and body.  Authentication is specified in the request **Header** `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>`.  You can set your PAT token as a variable which can be conveniently called for each request.
```

> If you prefer to use a tool with a graphical user interface when working with APIs, you can use a REST API client of your choice, for example, [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Using Postman, for each request, provide the request URI, the HTTP method, and, if required, the request parameters and body.  Authentication is specified in the request **Header** using the key:  `Authorization` and setting the value to this key as  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>`.  You can set your PAT token as a variable that can be conveniently called for each request.

Author: Nice!

####  4.1.2 Using a Command Line Tool such as Curl
If you are using the [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/) command to send your HTTP requests to the API  then you must include the authentication header as given in this example of a GET call: 

`curl --location --request GET 'https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/data' \
--header 'Authorization: MxToken <*yourMxToken>*' \`

Insert your `MxToken` for the the string <*your token*> for every request that you make.

### 4.2 Base Variables used in this How-to

For convenience and conciseness, throughout this how-to the following variables are used and should be substituted by the relevant values or those that are returned in the response:

> - {{baseURL}} – the base URL for the Data Hub API:  https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{baseURL}} – the base URL for the Data Hub API:  https://hub.mendix.com
```

Author: Hi Shilpi the base URL for the API is actually https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/data

For Data Hub it is hub.mendix.com - different.

- {*AppUUID}* – insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the application

> - {*EnvironmentUUID} -* insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {*EnvironmentUUID} -* insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the environment
```

## 5 Searching in the Catalog{#api-search}

Search in the Catalog returns the registered assets that satisfy the search string and filters. The search is carried out on all registered assets in the catalog (data sources, data sets, attributes and descriptions of the registered items).

To try out an example search request using the call described in this section, see [Searching for Registered Assets in the Catalog that have the string: ` sample`](data-hub-api-how-to-examples#get-data-ex)

### 5.1 Method and Endpoint

`GET /data` 

### 5.2 Request Parameters

The following parameters can be specified for the `data` call:

> 

Author: Agreed agreed, I was trying out both to see the usefulness of immediate access for the user, but I think they have to just have the OpenAPI spec for the parameters. Good to hear this feedback Julia!

| ----------------------- | -------- | --------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| query                   | string   | optional              |                       | Search string                                                |
| productionEndpointsOnly | boolean  | optional              | false                 | Boolean filter to only return endpoints in a Production environment. False will return endpoints in Production, Non-production and Sandbox environments. |
| contractType            | string   | optional              | all                   | Protocol used by the service. Currently supported values: OData_3_0, OData_4_0_Xml, Kafka_1_0. |
| afterId                 | string   | optional              | first page of results | UUID of the last endpoint on the previous page               |
| limit                   | integer  | optional              | 20                    | The maximum number of items that could be returned. Default is 20, Maximum value = 100. |

### 5.3 200 OK Response

> A successful 200 response returns the assets from the Data Hub that satisfies the search string and specified filters. This means that all the objects in the the returned `Data` array will have the string `sample` in the names and descriptions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful 200 response returns the assets from the Data Hub that satisfies the search string and specified filters. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
A successful 200 response returns the assets from the Data Hub that satisfy the search string and specified filters. The search results are returned in the `Data` array.
```

| Validated              | boolean  | always                    | Indicates if the service is validated during curation. Example: true |
| SecurityScheme         |          | always                    | An array of objects defining the security scheme for the item. |
| Environment            |          | always                    | A collection of the objects specifying the deployment environment |
| Application            |          | always                    | A collection of objects specifying the application details of the service. |
| Tags                   |          | always                    | Tags on this endpoint.<br>example: List [ OrderedMap { "Name": "HR" }, OrderedMap { "Name": "Salary" }, OrderedMap { "Name": "PeopleManagement" } ]<br>An array of `Tag` objects |
| TotalItems             | integer  | always                    | The total number of items (such as data sources ) existing at this level.<br>Example: 17 |

> | Items                  |          | Always                    | List of items (such as data sources) at this endpoint relevant to the search query. For example see [OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) |

Reviewer: Items is the collection of objects(entities/attributes). Broadly list down the elements of this collection.

Author: Going to take the table out and refer them to the OpenAPI spec.

The unique combination of the App UUID and the environment UUID is the identifier used to register any published endpoints (data sources/services) for the application that are deployed to this environment. 

**Note:** You will also need these UUIDs registering if the apps consume data sources as described in [registering consumed endpoints](#consumed-ep).

### 6.3 Registering the Published Services using PUT

This step describes the register service call for registering the services (endpoints) that are published by the app that are deployed to the same environment. 

When there are are many services deployed by an app each service (service endpoint) can be included in a single request as a part of the collection of `Endpoints`.

You can also try this out by following the example given in  [Registering the 5how-toODatav3-sample-service.](data-hub-api-how-to-examples#reg-service-ex)

#### 6.3.1 Method and Endpoint
`PUT /applications/*{AppUUID}*/environments/*{EnvironmentUUID}*/published-endpoints`

#### 6.3.2 Request Parameters and Body

> The parameters `AppUUID` and `EnvironmentUUID` of the deployed app are required as input parameters.

Reviewer: I would suggest to elaborate the fields of JSON schema in tabular form.

Author: Users should refer to Swagger for the point of absolute truth. Repeating it here means another place to update when it gets changed.

**Note:** The PUT call for registering consumed entities will *update* the currently registered datasets for an app/environment. This means that when you want to *add* consumed endpoints to an app (indicating the services the app is consuming), all previously registered consumed endpoints must be included in the request payload of the new request. If the previously registered consumed endpoints are not included, the result will be that they will be *removed*.

You can also try this out by following the example given in  [Registering Consumed Endpoints by the Howto5-App](data-hub-api-how-to-examples##consumed-ep-ex)

### 7.1 Method and Endpoint

`PUT /applications/{*AppUUID*}/environments/{*EnvironmentUUID*}/consumed-endpoints`

### 7.2 Request Parameters and body

The body of the request must include an array of the objects consumed by the application.

Both parameters `AppUUID` and `EnvironmnetUUID` are required for the app that is consuming the service.

> The Request body is comprised of the array of consumed endpoints `ConsumedEndpointRequestDetails`. 

Reviewer: I would suggest to elaborate the fields of JSON schema for registering the consumed endpoints in tabular form.

Author: See previous comment.
